why don't phones charge instantly
think of charging as filling a bathtub
with water it takes some time
and the more powerful the flow of water
the faster the tub will be filled
but if the stream is too strong it can
damage the enamel on the tub due to high
pressure
with phones it's the same if the power
surge is too much
the battery might go out of order why
don't cell phones work on the subway
you might have noticed that even above
ground you sometimes get bad reception
it's because there's some hard obstacle
interfering with the signal coming from
the nearest cell tower
if there's a wall or say a large block
of lead in the signal's way
it will be partially lost so it's only
natural that
underground where there's a thick layer
of ground between you and the towers
you'll hardly get any reception at all
why is there no night vision mode on
smartphones
because you probably won't be happy with
how huge and expensive your smartphone
becomes with this feature
to make good quality videos in the dark
a phone must have
a really big sensor to catch as much
light as possible
and infrared technology to boot these
combined would make the phone both
oversized and overpriced why don't
phones interfere with each other's
signals
to be fair they sometimes do but only
when there are too many phone talks
around
normally they have several ways to
separate frequencies
and can use them at the same time if
need be and you surely won't hear anyone
else's talk while on the phone today
this was the landline issue gone with
the mobile era
why do phones overheat most common
reasons are power
greedy apps too many apps open at the
same time
exposure to direct sunlight and
surprisingly
holding the phone in your hand too
tightly
if the temperature of your phone gets
high it can deplete the battery sooner
than you'd like
so keep it cool and comfy
why androids may sometimes not receive
text from
iphones this usually happens when you
switch from
iphone to android blame the imessage
service
which is an exclusive ios feature and
isn't supported by android devices
the apple website says you should first
insert the sim card back into your
iphone
turn off and deregister imessage and
only then
transfer the sim card to your new
android device
why don't phones come rooted by default
in most phones to get root access
you need to perform some manipulations
that void the warranty of your
phone so only the most advanced users
dare to do it
and phone manufacturers aren't planning
on giving this access freely
because they won't be able to protect
your data for the same reason
third-party apps aren't allowed to be
installed by default
why do so many phones have a glass back
the main reason is the cost it's just
cheaper to make the back of a phone from
glass than aluminum
but there's also a practical side
because metal back phones can't use the
wireless charging feature
why do phones need multiple cameras
stand-alone dslr
cameras allow for a larger sensor which
is responsible for capturing light
smartphones can't afford one big sensor
for fear of becoming too bulky
so they make use of several cameras at
once
the second camera supports and improves
the quality of the shot made by the
first one
and so on why do you sometimes receive
ads about things you didn't type or said
to your mobile assistant
i bet you've been there when you talk to
your friend about wanting to buy
say a bicycle and after an hour you see
tons of bike ads on your smartphone you
talk in person
and you never search for a bike on the
internet yet there it is
although there's still no hard proof
that your smartphone
passively listens to you an experiment
made in 2018
was pretty convincing it does if you
don't want it to collect marketing info
about you
turn off the mic for good why do you
need
airplane mode on board a plane when
airplane mode is
off your phone continues passively
searching for cell networks
sending out signals pilots say even one
phone can create static on their radio
which is not critical but unpleasant but
if there are 50 people on board using
their phones at once
they can totally disrupt the airplane's
radio and that
as you may guess is a huge problem for
everyone
why are smartphones so similar you might
argue
they have different looks and insides
but let's admit it
most of the phones have more or less the
same functionality
that's because when one manufacturer
adds some novelty
everyone else tries to follow suit and
as a result we basically get
tons of clones the only difference
between makes and models is their cost
which depends on how expensive the parts
are on that note
why are phones getting even pricier it's
quite common that newer and better stuff
is more expensive
but with phones it's especially true the
flagship models may cost as much as
fifteen hundred dollars today
again it mostly depends on the costly
and hard to get parts
if you want a state-of-the-art
hyper-efficient device
you'll have to cash in a hefty sum for
the best parts possible
why are they called cell phones anyway
because they use so-called
cells to send and receive information a
cell
is a unit of coverage in a cellular
network
on a diagram one cell would look like a
hexagon
that includes a tower and some area that
it covers
when your phone connects to another
tower it means you go from one cell to
another
why can't phone batteries be removed any
longer
a removable battery is convenient if
yours is becoming too worn to hold a
charge for long
you can just replace it with a new one
but it also takes a lot of valuable
space
inside the phone which can be used for
adding functionality
also a removable battery can only be
rectangular for convenience
while a non-removable one can take any
shape even a really weird one
it helps get more juice in it too why
are phones so big nowadays
some time ago really big phones were
called
phablets a cross between a phone and a
tablet
today though this term is obsolete
because phones are getting even bigger
anyway
larger screen means better viewing of
images and movies
as well as better gaming experience and
even navigation
though holding such a slab in one hand
proves
awkward indeed why do you need earphones
to listen to radio
the built-in antenna in a smartphone is
just about an inch long or even shorter
it's enough to catch communication
signals but radio needs a longer wire
for quality sound
so basically if you attach a long enough
piece of metal to your phone
it will do just as good but then you
have headphones for that
why do phones tell you to hold still
while taking night shots
in night mode the camera takes lots of
shots in a quick succession
and blends them into one that is of
better quality
so if you move your phone while it's
working it will take fewer shots
and the resulting picture will be worse
than it could have been
why do phones charge slower when it's
cold
battery charging is a chemical reaction
and it needs certain conditions for best
performance
when it's too cold molecules inside the
battery
move slower and the reaction takes more
time
on the other hand if it's too hot the
reaction might become too fast
damaging the battery why are smartphone
screens so easy to clean
compared to laptop ones any touchscreen
is covered with an oil repelling
solution
our fingers have sweat glands on them
and screen manufacturers always have
that in mind
since you don't touch laptop screens as
often it doesn't need this protective
covering